
Individual tribes, or in other words, races or stocks, are the
constituent elements of the earliest history.  Among the stocks which
in later times we meet with in Italy, the immigration of some, of
the Hellenes for instance, and the denationalization of others,
such as the Bruttians and the inhabitants of the Sabine territory,
are historically attested.  Setting aside both these classes, there
remain a number of stocks whose wanderings can no longer be traced
by means of historical testimony, but only by a priori inference,
and whose nationality cannot be shown to have undergone any radical
change from external causes.  To establish the national individuality
of these is the first aim of our inquiry.  In such an inquiry,
had we nothing to fall back upon but the chaotic mass of names of
tribes and the confusion of what professes to be historical tradition,
the task might well be abandoned as hopeless.  The conventionally
received tradition, which assumes the name of history, is composed
of a few serviceable notices by civilized travellers, and a mass
of mostly worthless legends, which have usually been combined with
little discrimination of the true character either of legend or
of history.  But there is another source of tradition to which we
may resort, and which yields information fragmentary but authentic;
we mean the indigenous languages of the stocks settled in Italy from
time immemorial.  These languages, which have grown with the growth
of the peoples themselves, have had the stamp of their process
of growth impressed upon them too deeply to be wholly effaced
by subsequent civilization.  One only of the Italian languages is
known to us completely; but the remains which have been preserved
of several of the others are sufficient to afford a basis for
historical inquiry regarding the existence, and the degrees, of
family relationship among the several languages and peoples.

The middle of the peninsula was inhabited, as far back as trustworthy
tradition reaches, by two peoples or rather two branches of the
same people, whose position in the Indo-Germanic family admits of
being determined with greater precision than that of the Iapygian
nation.  We may with propriety call this people the Italian, since
upon it rests the historical significance of the peninsula.  It is
divided into the two branch-stocks of the Latins and the Umbrians;
the latter including their southern offshoots, the Marsians and
Samnites, and the colonies sent forth by the Samnites in historical
times.  The philological analysis of the idioms of these stocks
has shown that they together constitute a link in the Indo-Germanic
chain of languages, and that the epoch in which they still formed
an unity is a comparatively late one.  In their system of sounds
there appears the peculiar spirant -f, in the use of which they
agree with the Etruscans, but decidedly differ from all Hellenic
and Helleno-barbaric races as well as from the Sanscrit itself.
The aspirates, again, which are retained by the Greeks throughout,
and the harsher of them also by the Etruscans, were originally
foreign to the Italians, and are represented among them by one of
their elements--either by the media, or by the breathing alone -f
or -h.  The finer spirants, -s, -w, -j, which the Greeks dispense
with as much as possible, have been retained in the Italian languages
almost unimpaired, and have been in some instances still further
developed.  The throwing back of the accent and the consequent
destruction of terminations are common to the Italians with some
Greek stocks and with the Etruscans; but among the Italians this
was done to a greater extent than among the former, and to a lesser
extent than among the latter.  The excessive disorder of the
terminations in the Umbrian certainly had no foundation in the
original spirit of the language, but was a corruption of later date,
which appeared in a similar although weaker tendency also at Rome.
Accordingly in the Italian languages short vowels are regularly
dropped in the final sound, long ones frequently: the concluding
consonants, on the other hand, have been tenaciously retained in
the Latin and still more so in the Samnite; while the Umbrian drops
even these.  In connection with this we find that the middle voice
has left but slight traces in the Italian languages, and a peculiar
passive formed by the addition of -r takes its place; and further
that the majority of the tenses are formed by composition with the
roots -es and -fu, while the richer terminational system of the
Greeks along with the augment enables them in great part to dispense
with auxiliary verbs.  While the Italian languages, like the Aeolic
dialect, gave up the dual, they retained universally the ablative
which the Greeks lost, and in great part also the locative.  The
rigorous logic of the Italians appears to have taken offence at
the splitting of the idea of plurality into that of duality and
of multitude; while they have continued with much precision to
express the relations of words by inflections.  A feature peculiarly
Italian, and unknown even to the Sanscrit, is the mode of imparting
a substantive character to the verb by gerunds and supines,--a
process carried out more completely here than in any other language.

Thats some security you have here, Dr. Zarkoff!  Yes, 
Mr. President; the work were doing, well, you understand 
that if any word of this ever got out, Im afraid our own 
people would batter down the walls and lynch us all!  
President Erog nodded, and patted the Badger on the 
shoulder; I understand that, Emil, I honestly do; believe 
me, if the situation were not so desperate, Id never even 
think of so risky a gamble as this.  The Badger nodded 
nervously, removing his old fashioned spectacles, to polish 
them with an equally old-fashioned handkerchief.  Its 
especially difficult.  After all, we have a staff composed 
of academics, who are loath to keep ANY kind of a secret.  
We have industrial scientists, who can keep secrets very 
well, but who are always looking for a way to siphon off 
some new idea to turn a profit, and then we have the 
military scientists, who are rabid about keeping EVERYTHING 
secret, even when other departments need the information!  
Erog nodded and patted the Badger on the back once again; 
Yes, yes, I understand completely but if what Ive been 
reading in my daily reports is true, youre about done with 
the prototype device!  Id like to see it if I could..  
The Badger nodded quickly, and turned, leading the way down 
a corridor; This way, Mr. President Although I do have to 
warn you that were risking an awful lot, building a device 
on so little data, on so tenuous a theory!  Why, if were 
correct, this principle could revolutionize Physics!  It 
needs MUCH more study!.

I tell you Larry, this stations been there FOREVER.  I 
must have scanned it a dozen times myself.  I even went on 
board once as part of an inspection team.  There aint 
nothing there but some dusty old miners, dirty passageways, 
and huge chambers of mined-out rock.  The fox looked back 
at his pilot and stubbornly shook his head; and tell me, 
Moe, how long has it been since you were on that station?  
How thoroughly did you search it?  The way things have gone 
to hell back home on Elysium, the Rebels have GOT to have a 
base of some sort close by.  And this placed be ideal!  
Gotta be Rebels there, or those pirates that work with 
them!  Lemme scan em just one more time.  Weve got some 
new gear; maybe well catch em with their pants down and 
well find something!  Think of the Heroes wed be if we 
DID find something.  The weasel looked back at his copilot 
and shrugged; suit yourself.  Its not likely that these 
days the civvies are going to go complaining to anyone back 
home about us scanning them.

Im afraid I really do have to agree with Dr. Zarkoff, Mr. 
President.  The event in the asteroid belt was barely 
observed, and poorly documented.  It was barely noticed at 
all!  Scarcely the basis on which to build a doomsday 
weapon!  Erog nodded to the Stoat and smiled his most 
winning smile; My dear Dr. Gates; it doesnt HAVE to work, 
although a demonstrator would be nice. It just has to be 
BELIEVABLE!  Remember, were grasping at straws here.  At 
the current rate of advance, the Reds will be here in 
weeks, if not in days!  Do you know what theyre doing to 
the intelligentsia?  It isnt pretty, let me tell you!  
If they think youre necessary, you get sent to a political 
training camp.  If they think youre. Disposable, you get 
a quiet execution.  And if they think youre any kind of a 
government supporter well, do you remember Professor Poe?  
He wrote that brilliant sociological treatise in defense of 
our economic system?  I understand he was publicly 
executed. Im told they stripped him naked, tied him to a 
pole in the Harvata city square, and then a number of 
ladies in the Reds movement..  YES, yes, please, Mr. 
President.. Im familiar with the incident.  After all, it 
was broadcast every night for a week.  The President 
smiled; Ah, well, we did milk their little excess for all 
the propaganda value we could.. but never the less, I think 
my point is made.  Gates nodded, but Zarkoff frowned; Mr. 
President, Im really not sure ANY doomsday weapon will be 
believable enough to stop the Reds in their tracks  Erog 
just smiled; its an ancient concept called mutual assured 
destruction or MAD for short.  After all, our 
psychological analysis of the Reds leader no, not 
Quistling, that other fellow, the one behind him Zyloff 
They say that hes only in it for the power.  And if 
theres no one, or no thing left to have power over.. 
well, were confident that hell settle for a piece of the 
pie, if hes convinced he cant have any.  Anything to 
stop them from destroying the planets infrastructure, and 
killing its people, anything to bring them to the 
negotiating table..  And thats where your little 
demonstrator comes in.  Turning, Erog looked at the 
collection of circuit boards, magnetic coils and liquid 
helium dewars.  It looked more like a junkmans idea of a 
refrigerator, than a weapon that could destroy a planet.  
Forcing a smile, he purrrred;  Is this it?